federalist five the same subject
continued
concerning dangers from foreign force
and influence
for the independent journal by john jay
to the people of the state of new york
queen anne in her letter of the 1st of
july 1706
to the scotch parliament makes some
observations on the importance of the
union then forming between england and
scotland which merit our attention
i shall present the public with one or
two extracts from it
an entire imperfect union will be the
solid foundation of lasting peace
it will secure your religion liberty and
property
remove the animosities amongst
yourselves and the jealousies and
differences betwixt our two kingdoms
it must increase your strength riches
and trade
and by this union the whole island being
joined in affection
and free from all apprehensions of
different interests will be enabled to
resist
all its enemies we most earnestly
recommend to you calmness and unanimity
in this great and weighty affair that
the union may be brought to a happy
conclusion
being the only effectual way to secure
our present and future happiness
and disappoint the designs of our and
your enemies who will doubtless on this
occasion
use their utmost endeavors to prevent or
delay this union
it was remarked in the preceding paper
that weaknesses and divisions at home
would invite dangers from abroad and
that nothing would tend
more to secure us from them than union
strength
and good government within ourselves
this subject is copious and cannot
easily be exhausted
the history of great britain is the one
with which we are in general the best
acquainted
and it gives us many useful lessons we
may profit by their experience without
paying the price which it cost them
although it seems obvious to common
sense that the people of such an island
should be but
one nation yet we find that they were
for ages divided into three
and that those three were almost
constantly embroiled in quarrels and
wars with one another
notwithstanding their true interests
with respect to the continental nations
was really the same
yet by the arts and policy and practices
of those nations their mutual jealousies
were perpetually kept inflamed
and for a long series of years they were
far more inconvenient
and troublesome than they were useful
and assisting to each other
should the people of america divide
themselves into three or four nations
would not the same thing happen would
not similar jealousies arise and be in
like manner cherished
instead of their being joined in
affection and free from all apprehension
of different interests
envy and jealousy would soon extinguish
confidence and affection
and the partial interests of each
confederacy instead of the general
interests of all america would be the
only objects of their policy and
pursuits
hence like most other bordering nations
they would always be either involved in
disputes and war
or live in constant apprehension of them
the most sanguine advocates for three or
four confederacies
cannot reasonably suppose that they
would long remain exactly
on an equal footing in point of strength
even if it was possible to form them so
at first but admitting that to be
practicable
yet what human contrivance can secure
the continuance of such equality
independent of these local circumstances
which tend to beget an increased power
in one part and to impede its progress
in another
we must advert to the effects of that
superior policy and good management
which would probably distinguish the
government of one above the rest
and by which their relative equality and
strength and consideration would be
destroyed
for it cannot be presumed that the same
degree of sound policy
prudence and foresight would uniformly
be observed by each of these
confederacies for a long succession of
years
whenever and from whatever causes it
might happen and happen it would that
any one of these nations or
confederacies
should rise on the scale of political
importance much above the degree of her
neighbors
that moment would those neighbors behold
her with envy and with fear
both those passions would lead them to
countenance if not to promote whatever
might promise to diminish her importance
and would also restrain them from
measures calculated to advance
or even to secure her prosperity much
time would be necessary to enable her to
discern these unfriendly dispositions
she would soon begin not only to lose
confidence in her neighbors
but also to feel a disposition equally
unfavorable to them
distrust naturally creates distrust and
by nothing is good will and kind conduct
more speedily changed
than by invidious jealousies and
uncandid imputations
whether expressed or implied the north
is generally the region of strength
and many local circumstances render it
probable that the most northern of the
proposed confederacies would at a period
not very distant
be unquestionably more formidable than
any of the others
no sooner would this become evident than
the northern hive would excite the same
ideas and sensations in the more
southern parts of america which it
formerly did in the southern parts of
europe
nor does it appear to be a rash
conjecture that its young swarms might
often be tempted to gather honey
in the more blooming fields and milder
air of their luxurious and more delicate
neighbors
they who will consider the history of
similar divisions and confederacies will
find abundant reason to apprehend
that those in contemplation would in no
other sense be neighbors
than as they would be borderers that
they would neither love nor trust one
another but on the contrary would be a
prey to discord
jealousy and mutual injuries in short
that they would place us exactly in the
situations in which some nations
doubtless wish to see us
is formidable only to each other
from these considerations it appears
that those gentlemen are greatly
mistaken who suppose that alliances
offensive and defensive
might be formed between these
confederacies and would produce that
combination and union of wills of
arms and of resources which would be
necessary to put and keep them in a
formidable state of defense against
foreign enemies
when did the independent states into
which britain and spain were formerly
divided combined in such alliance or
unite their forces against a foreign
enemy the proposed confederacies will be
distinct nations
each of them would have its commerce
with foreigners to regulate by distinct
treaties and as their productions and
commodities are different
and proper for different markets so
would those treaties be essentially
different
different commercial concerns must
create different interests
and of course different degrees of
political attachment to and connection
with different foreign nations
hence it might and probably would happen
that the foreign nation with whom the
southern confederacy might be at war
would be the one with whom the northern
confederacy would be the most desirous
of preserving peace and friendship
an alliance so contrary to their
immediate interest would not therefore
be easy to form nor if formed would it
be observed and fulfilled with perfect
good faith
nay it is far more probable that in
america as in europe
neighboring nations acting under the
impulse of opposite interests
and unfriendly passions would frequently
be found taking different sides
considering our distance from europe
it would be more natural for these
confederacies to apprehend danger from
one another than from distant nations
and therefore that each of them should
be more desirous to guard against the
others by the aid of foreign alliances
than to guard against foreign dangers by
alliances between themselves
and here let us not forget how much more
easy it is to receive foreign fleets
into our ports and foreign enemies into
our country than it is to persuade or
compel them to depart
how many conquests did the romans and
others make in the character of allies
and what innovations did they under the
same character introduce into the
governments of those whom they pretended
to protect
let candid men judge then whether the
division of america into any given
number of independent sovereignties
would tend to secure us against the
hostilities and improper interference of
foreign nations
publius